docs/programs/bandwidth_growth_program.md, before:

---
layout: default
title: Bandwidth Growth Program
parent: Programs
nav_order: 3
---

# Bandwidth Growth Program

Active!  Monitor the [Discord](https://discord.gg/qdGCAKJdHs) for announcements.

[Register](#registration)

[Terms and Conditions](/docs/programs/terms.html)

## Overview

The goal of the regional Bandwidth Growth Program is to grow the capacity of high-quality regional network bandwidth around the globe.  

In order to participate in this program, you must first register for a [Referral Code](/docs/programs/ambassador_registration_program.html).

## Goals

A key competitive differentiator for a communications network is the availability and quality of the network, which is in turn directly related to the regional distribution of “Points of Presence” (PoPs) in the network. For example, if two people want to chat securely with each other, their experience will be much better if a Relay Node is located near to them.  Their encrypted messages will never leave their immediate region, and the round-trip time for the messages will be very short.

In the Diode Network, the PoPs are the Relay Nodes. Therefore, the program is focused on the deployment of Relay Nodes.

A 12-month goal of the Diode Community DAO is to achieve 1,500 regional Relay Nodes. A secondary goal of the Diode Community DAO is to achieve greater bandwidth demand from ecosystem fleets than from Diode commercial Fleet Contracts within 36 months.

## Rewards

Participants are rewarded based on the activity of the Relay Nodes who have been registered by the Referral Code owner or by others they have referred (see "Reward Calculation" below). Although Relay Nodes get Bandwidth Rewards whether or not they participate in the program, they will also receive Bandwidth Boost Rewards as part of the program.

### Reward Mechanism

In order to be rewarded by this program, you must:

- register for a [Referral Code](/docs/programs/ambassador_registration_program.html)
- register your Relay Node
- ensure your Relay Node provides some bandwidth to the Diode Network (as proven through bandwidth proofs that the Relay Nodes automatically submit to the network at the end of each month)
- keep your Relay Node online for the majority of the epoch - including within 24 hours of the close of the epoch (points reset to 0 if no valid contributions in the past 24 hours)
- if required, ensure your Relay Node has a minimum Registered Balance or Stake (see next)

**Node Registered Balance**

A node must have at least 1 DIODE balance in its wallet (or in the staking contract) by the Registered Balance Cutoff (10 days after the start of the Epoch).  Whatever balance is on the node at that time will be the "Registered Balance" for the Epoch.  If the node's wallet balanced is increased, it will become the Registered Balance in the following Epoch.  If the node's wallet balance is decreased, whatever it is decreased to will become the new "Registered Balance" for the current epoch.  The Registered Balance may be updated based on these rules at any time, no less than once a day.
  
If a registered Relay Node achieves these requirements, they will be eligible for rewards.

### Reward Calculation

When Bandwidth Rewards are deployed at the end of each month, the percentage of the total network rewards that each Relay Node receives is calculated as its “Relay Bandwidth Contribution”. Based on its Relay Bandwidth Contribution, if a Relay Node has registered for the program, a “Bandwidth Boost Award” may be allocated to the Relay Node from a monthly Bandwidth Growth Program pool amount. Please note that each Node's Bandwidth Boost Award may be subject to certain scalars, including:

- NFTs that may provide a points boost as listed in the Diode Network points dashboard
- Points leverage based on a node's Registered Balance.  Currently, a Registered Balance of 10 DIODE will earn full points, while anything less than 10 DIODE will be calculated as points * (Registered Balance / 10)
- Fleet-specific ratios

## Registration

You must register your Relay Node in order to attributed rewardable traffic to your Referral Code, and any code in the hierarchy above you.

### How to Register a Relay Node

1. Join the [Diode Referral Program](https://diode.foundation/docs/programs/ambassador_registration_program.html) and get your own referral code
2. [Put a Relay Node online!](https://forum.diode.io/t/lite-node-installation/33)
3. Open the [Diode Referrals Zone](https://diode.io/joinzone/#p0xUHtufRS_tMNd9XRvnxbMmXPtOyRbPrQLnLN4j3VNsDhwSrpRYpwbnhMZ2) in your Diode App and click the "Registrar" DM
5. Use the command "register [node address]" where [node address] is the public key of your Relay Node (make sure you don't attempt to register a node / address that you do not own - this can result in your code being banned from the system)
6. You can type "nodes" to get a list of nodes that belong to you
7. Start relaying traffic!

## Governance

**The following activities are bannable offenses:**

* Registering a node or zone that does not belong to you
* Falsifying data from a node or zone
* Creation of multiple user identities by the same person in order to acquire referral points
* Sending fake data to the relay node in order to increase points
* Otherwise attempting to game the system in ways that are not aligned with the Diode Foundation's purpose or the program's goals

The Diode Community DAO is responsible for governance of this program.  

All Relay Node registrations are valid for 36 months only, after which the Relay Node rewards will no longer be allocated a Bandwidth Boost Award. Once a child Relay Node has been registered, registrations may not be changed.

Unallocated Bandwidth Boost Award, if any, will be added to the following month’s Bandwidth Growth Program Pool.

Commit message:

Updated for Zone Points info

docs/programs/bandwidth_growth_program.md, after:

---
layout: default
title: Bandwidth Growth Program
parent: Programs
nav_order: 3
---

# Bandwidth Growth Program

Active!  Monitor the [Discord](https://discord.gg/qdGCAKJdHs) for announcements.

[Register](#registration)

[Terms and Conditions](/docs/programs/terms.html)

## Overview

The goal of the regional Bandwidth Growth Program is to grow the capacity and demand of high-quality regional network bandwidth around the globe.

In order to participate in this program, you must first register for a [Referral Code](/docs/programs/ambassador_registration_program.html).

## Goals

A key competitive differentiator for a communications network is the availability and quality of the network, which is in turn directly related to the regional distribution of “Points of Presence” (PoPs) in the network. For example, if two people want to chat securely with each other, their experience will be much better if a Relay Node is located near to them.  Their encrypted messages will never leave their immediate region, and the round-trip time for the messages will be very short.

In the Diode Network, the PoPs are the Relay Nodes. Therefore, the program is focused on the deployment of Relay Nodes.

A 12-month goal of the Diode Community DAO is to achieve 1,500 regional Relay Nodes. A secondary goal of the Diode Community DAO is to achieve greater bandwidth demand from ecosystem fleets than from Diode commercial Fleet Contracts within 36 months.

## Rewards

Participants are rewarded based on the activity of the Relay Nodes who have been registered by the Referral Code owner or by others they have referred (see "Reward Calculation" below). Although Relay Nodes get Bandwidth Rewards whether or not they participate in the program, they will also receive Bandwidth Boost Rewards as part of the program.

### Reward Mechanism

In order to be rewarded by this program, you must:

For Nodes: 

- register for a [Referral Code](/docs/programs/ambassador_registration_program.html)
- register your Relay Node
- ensure your Relay Node provides some bandwidth to the Diode Network (as proven through bandwidth proofs that the Relay Nodes automatically submit to the network at the end of each month)
- keep your Relay Node online for the majority of the epoch - including within 24 hours of the close of the epoch (points reset to 0 if no valid contributions in the past 24 hours)
- if required, ensure your Relay Node has a minimum Registered Balance or Stake (see next)

For Zones: 
- ensure daily active user engagement (messaging, file creation, etc.) - points decrease when activity drops since they’re based on the average active users per epoch
- keep your Zone active - after 24 hours of inactivity its score resets to 0, though points are restored when activity resumes, 24 hour periods of downtime will affect the overall average


**Node Registered Balance**

A node must have at least 1 DIODE balance in its wallet (or in the staking contract) by the Registered Balance Cutoff (10 days after the start of the Epoch).  Whatever balance is on the node at that time will be the "Registered Balance" for the Epoch.  If the node's wallet balanced is increased, it will become the Registered Balance in the following Epoch.  If the node's wallet balance is decreased, whatever it is decreased to will become the new "Registered Balance" for the current epoch.  The Registered Balance may be updated based on these rules at any time, no less than once a day.
  
If a registered Relay Node achieves these requirements, they will be eligible for rewards.

### Reward Calculation

When Bandwidth Rewards are deployed at the end of each month, the percentage of the total network rewards that each Relay Node receives is calculated as its “Relay Bandwidth Contribution”. Based on its Relay Bandwidth Contribution, if a Relay Node has registered for the program, a “Bandwidth Boost Award” may be allocated to the Relay Node from a monthly Bandwidth Growth Program pool amount. Please note that each Node's Bandwidth Boost Award may be subject to certain scalars, including:

- NFTs that may provide a points boost as listed in the Diode Network points dashboard
- Points leverage based on a node's Registered Balance.  Currently, a Registered Balance of 10 DIODE will earn full points, while anything less than 10 DIODE will be calculated as points * (Registered Balance / 10)
- Fleet-specific ratios

## Registration

You must register your Relay Node in order to attributed rewardable traffic to your Referral Code, and any code in the hierarchy above you.

### How to Register a Relay Node

1. Join the [Diode Referral Program](https://diode.foundation/docs/programs/ambassador_registration_program.html) and get your own referral code
2. [Put a Relay Node online!](https://forum.diode.io/t/lite-node-installation/33)
3. Open the [Diode Referrals Zone](https://diode.io/joinzone/#p0xUHtufRS_tMNd9XRvnxbMmXPtOyRbPrQLnLN4j3VNsDhwSrpRYpwbnhMZ2) in your Diode App and click the "Registrar" DM
5. Use the command "register [node address]" where [node address] is the public key of your Relay Node (make sure you don't attempt to register a node / address that you do not own - this can result in your code being banned from the system)
6. You can type "nodes" to get a list of nodes that belong to you
7. Start relaying traffic!

## Governance

**The following activities are bannable offenses:**

* Registering a node or zone that does not belong to you
* Falsifying data from a node or zone
* Creation of multiple user identities by the same person in order to acquire referral points
* Sending fake data to the relay node in order to increase points
* Otherwise attempting to game the system in ways that are not aligned with the Diode Foundation's purpose or the program's goals

The Diode Community DAO is responsible for governance of this program.  

All Relay Node registrations are valid for 36 months only, after which the Relay Node rewards will no longer be allocated a Bandwidth Boost Award. Once a child Relay Node has been registered, registrations may not be changed.

Unallocated Bandwidth Boost Award, if any, will be added to the following month’s Bandwidth Growth Program Pool.
